# Resume-Scrutinizing-System-Database-Job-Bridge

Job Bridge is a recruiting specialist company which acts as a platform between the applicants who have prior working experience in a role and are looking to change from one company to the other.  Job Bridge has a Resume Tracking System which is a database built to store the details of a prospective Job Seeker who is in search of a new job in the United States. Job Bridge acts as a third party where it accepts resumes from the prospective Job Seekers and stores them and provides them to the companies which are looking for job applicants. Recruiting can be a nightmare to companies of all stages and sizes. So, the recruiting companies play a very crucial role in the present world. As Job Bridge acts as a third party between the applicants and the companies which are looking for new job applicants it stands in a beneficial position as it has the right resources in its database about the applicants and provides the companies the right candidates depending on their role requirements. Job Bridge is associated with many top companies in the United States which would help the applicants secure a job in the most efficient way. The company gives a tough competition to its competitors as it is associated with many top companies. 

## Database Description

The database holds crucial details of the applicants which differentiate one applicant from the other. The database stores the Applicant Name, Applicant LinkedInID, Applicant Email Address, Applicant Street Address, and the state in which he lives. It also stores the Education Details of the Applicant which includes the Grade Point Average of the applicant in both the undergraduate and the graduation level depending upon the applicant. The company considers the applicants who have a major in Information Systems, Data Analytics, Computer Science, Business Analytics, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, and Electronics. The database also stores the college name where the applicant has pursued his education. The database also stores the details of the Study projects that he has done during his education and the Work projects that he has done for a company in a role. This would help easy identification of the applicant work experience and the database also stores the number of years an applicant has worked for a company in a role. The company works with the applicants whose roles are restricted to Java Developer, Software Developer, Data Base administrator, Solutions Specialist, Cloud Engineer, Data Analyst, Electrical Engineer. The companies who are looking to recruit the applicants in these roles are only associated with the company. The database also stores the data of the contributor names who have worked with the applicant on the study projects or the Work Projects so that we can avoid the plagiarism of the projects. This plagiarism can be rectified if there is a new applicant in the database and he has the same project name and the project description just like the applicant who is present in our database and if the new applicant’s name is not on the contributors’ list his resume would be flagged until the issue is resolved.  

## Business Value

According to www.Statista.com the recent estimated the Staffing and recruiting industry market size has increased from 148.3 Billion USD to 153.2 USD. As the market size is huge the Return on Investment should be high as it is still an untapped market when it comes to specific role hiring. According to the Wall Street Journal, 3.4 million people in the US have chosen to give their boss their two-week notice in April 2018. Employees who leave their job are more likely to make as much as 30 percent more in a new role in a new company. And this is the main reason many people look for changing their jobs frequently. Job Bridge considers the applicants who have prior work experience of more than a year and who are looking for a new job unlike, the other recruiting companies who also take into the applicants who do not have any prior work experience. This factor would help Job Bridge play a key role in the recruiting market. In the next phase, Job Bridge would like to add some more roles that they would account for in their company and would also like to spread across Canada, India, and Europe in the next 5 years. Keeping in view the growth of Job Bridge over the past three years, we are sure that the value of Job Bridge would increase to 10 million dollars in the next two years. We also expect the increase in the applicants by 23% by the end of 2019. 
